You now know how to manually configure an instance with node exporter.
It's a similar process to get almost any exporter running,
which should be really encouraging since this one was pretty simple.
You also got Prometheus setup with
automatic service discovery so that it will automatically monitor EC2 instances.
Nice. In this exercise you did quite a lot.
Let's actually walk through it one more time and see how you did.
We're going to create a new instance.
Again I'm going to choose an Ubuntu instance,
because that's what the instructions are using.
Again, I'll select a free instance with t2.micro.
Again I want to make sure that the VPC is the default.
I'm checking to make sure that I have the right amount of
storage space which in this case is still great to have eight gigabytes.
I'm going to add a name,
which this time is going to be a Prometheus Node Exporter.
I put that in the wrong place,
let's put that here.
I'm going to create another tag just to help me categorize things a little bit better.
I'm going to choose
the security group that I chose before because it has all the right ports that I want,
Review and Launch, and looks like everything's pretty good.
We'll launch and we'll choose my Prometheus key pair.
Now we'll be able to access our new instance, Prometheus Node Exporter.
Here is my host name right here below that I can copy,
and even though it says it's pending out but I can still access this instance.
So now let's SSH into this instance using the Prometheus pem file.
As before we will use the Ubuntu username,
and we'll paste our host name right there in line.
Now, we're in.
The next thing we want to do is go to
the Prometheus downloads page and scroll to the node exporter section.
We want to get the link address for the Linux version of our node exporter.
We want to come back to our terminal,
where we're logged into our node exporter EC2 instance and we want to download that file.
Now we need to extract the files.
Now we can go into the directory,
and we can actually start up our node exporter.
Again, once you see this wall of text,
that means something good is happening.
Now we need to go in and configure
our Prometheus instance to notify it that we have a new exporter.
We need to SSH into that server.
When I come back to the AWS console,
and we're going to copy the host name once more.
Now from another terminal window,
we can SSH again into
our Prometheus server using the Ubuntu username and pasting the host name.
Now we're going to go into the directory for our Prometheus instance,
and we're going to use our text editor to modify the Prometheus YML file.
Once we're inside the Prometheus config file,
we're going to scroll all the way to the bottom to add another scrape_config.
Now I can either remove the one that's there,
because it's just the default,
or I can add mine to the end.
I'm going to actually add mine to the end,
which means I'm going to have two scrape_configs,
and I'm going to fix the indentation because when I pasted it,
it didn't quite look right.
If you don't fix the indentation, Prometheus will complain.
Make sure that the indentation is correct according to YML guidelines.
Here we have localhost which came from the documentation.
But we don't want localhost,
we actually want the host name of the EC2 instance where we have the exporter running.
For that we're going to go back to AWS console and copy another host name.
We're going to select our node exporter EC2 instance,
and we're going to once again copy
this host name so that we can paste it back into our config file.
There we have it. Now, we save and we exit,
and Prometheus is now poised and ready.
All we have to do is start running it again.
As usual the wall of text means everything's good.
Now let's take a look at Prometheus in
our web browser to see our new node exporter at work.
Back here in Prometheus,
all I've got to do is refresh and head over to Status and Service Discovery.
This is going to show me my new node exporter.
Now you can see that I have a new type of exporter called node here,
and I can click here to show more and actually see the details of my node exporter.
This is how we know that that node exporter is
communicating with the central Prometheus server.
Now this is nice,
but what if we are spinning up new servers and new instances and putting
on new node exporters all day or in an automated fashion?
Having to modify that configuration file
every single time manually is just not acceptable.
Let's set up automatic discovery.
Let's go back to our Prometheus server and actually stop
it and modify the configuration file once again.
Again, let's scroll all the way to the bottom so that we can make a modification here.
This last job that we just created was nice for
testing but is not awesome for a real production system,
so let's paste in a better option.
Now we have still a node job,
but now it's going to be using this right here,
ec2_sd_configs so that it can automatically find those EC2 instances and pull them in.
This is EC2 service discovery configs.
It's a special part of Prometheus.
We're going to have a region, we're going to have our access key, secret key,
and the port that we should be watching for on those exporters.
If you remember, we get the access key and the secret key
from when we create users in IAM in AWS.
Make sure that the region is correct because if it's not,
then service discovery will not be able to find any of your instances.
Once that's done, save,
exit and restart Prometheus.
Now when you go to service discovery and refresh,
you'll find many more node exporters reporting in.
Now you've got outside systems that can communicate with your Prometheus service.
As you add more and more exporters you'll often need to
look at tutorials to set things up the way you want.
This exercise was practice in using
outside sources to configure your Prometheus instance.
Using tutorials to set things up isn't cheating in fact it's normal.